# create

## Creating waves of attacking foes

```
create aFoe every m minutes n times with k% success
```

You can create mobs of enemies to harry the player.

```
Message: 1019
  <ce> Ha! You'll never escape with _item_.

Foe _thief_ is 3 thief

from 0:0 to 3:00 daily
    create _thief_ every 13 minutes 30 times with 75% success

when _thief_ injured
    say 1019
```

would dispatch trios of thugs after the PC every night from midnight to 3 am. Some of the thugs won't succeed in locating the PC.

Use the `place` command to create foes in a more guarded manner, see [Creating guard foes](./place.md#creating-guard-foes) for more details.

The spoils from the dead bodies of human foes generated by this command have the interesting properties of (a) improving in quality with each wave and (b) repeating the spoils dropped by the foes dispatched in the previous waves. The spoils are also proportional to player level, so higher level PCs tend to see better goods. But even at level 2 or 3, mithril drops aren't that uncommon.

I've had PCs garner over 5 million gold from such an episode. Even at level 2 or 3, gaining enough gold to purchase a yacht is commonplace.

The enemies spawned by `create foe` will track the PC, both in town and inside dungeons. Some quests prefer to limit the appearance of spawned mobs to the town areas of the map. See [send foe](./send.md).

Note that the [injured](../QuestConditions.md#attacking-foes) condition can be triggered for each wave of attackers, while the [killed](../QuestConditions.md#attacking-foes) condition will only trigger up to the number of foes determined from the Foe command, no matter how many of them are actually slaughtered by the PC.


## Creating an NPC somewhere in the game world

```
create npc anNPC
```

This action generates `anNPC` (described by a `Person` command) at that NPC's birthplace in the current province.

```
Person _contact_ faction The_Cabal female anyInfo 1012

_foundHint_ task:
    create npc _contact_
```

installs the `_contact_` NPC at a place in the current province, probably not local to the PC, and hopefully in a venue appropriate to the NPC's group or faction.


## Creating an NPC at a specific place

```
create npc at aPlace
```

Although this is called **create npc**, **reserve sprite** may be more appropriate. In the existing quests it is invariably followed by a `place anNPC` at the same place, and occasionally by `place item` at the same place or by `create foe` at the same place.

Its purpose seems to be to inform **X-engine** that a particular site will have an item sprite or an NPC sprite teleported to it during the quest.

At least, so far as my testing has shown, `create npc at` without a corresponding `place npc` action has no visible effect in the game world.

See the [place](./place.md) command for the usual way of positioning an NPC in the game world.

In general, permanent NPCs use the create npc action prior to using the place npc action. A permanent NPC used only with the `place npc` action isn't guaranteed to be visible within the game world.
